Well come back and this lesson we're going to look at arrays and looping through the values of an array.
So first of all we create a list of arrays so let's say let's do one called and user names and let's
create that array.
So we're going to have some users in here so with this will stick to lowercase.
And so there's some users now some usernames with an array and that's refreshed thought out there and
we know that within the consul here I do use are names as a quick refresher on arrays.
Every array has a length value so you can actually use that and loop through an array.
So let's do a for loop.
We're going to do variable x started and set it equal to zero because we know arrays start at zero.
So the first index value of the rate is zero and we're going to loop through X while it's less than
usernames length because this is a value that we can grab a hold of.
So we can make use of it within our script and then we just need to increment x.
And now let's outputs and we use our favorite h to Mel and we need to output the value of the username.
So let's do the user names and place X with him here and then concatenated together with a line break.
So do you think doing this is going to put our value of our array.
So let's take a look and see see what our output is.
So I refreshed it.
Indeed we do get all of the usernames within the array so we're able to loop through and pull back all
of the information.
So in a better way to do this if you want to loop through an array we can use while.
So this is another option that we have because we know with while
it doesn't actually live through unless this condition is true and then we can do something with those
values.
So let's set up our while loop here.
So they'll loop it out twice or loop it out a number of different ways and then up to you depending
on your scenario and what you're trying to do accomplish to be able to choose which is the best way
and which is the quickest way to put that content.
So with a while loop we need to set up a starting point.
So let's use value of x and we're going to equal X to zero.
So we don't need this value of x anymore that we're looping through.
So that's where we're just using that same one at this time.
Let's loop through while there is a value here.
So we know that if we increment X past the value that's within the user names we're going to throw an
error.
And basically we can't pull back this value anymore and that's where we're going to break the loop.
And that's where the wild conditions are going to come in.
It's good to know that at this point this loop is over.
So let's see if this works.
So let's go refresh it.
And we are able to pull that loop values within this type of format as well.
So I want to give you a challenge actually.
So what if we want to loop through this array and backwards.
So we saw that we're taking.
Mike John Larry but what I want you to do is to produce Larry John and Mike using a for loop.
And if you want positivity you open up your editor give it a try.
So all we're doing is and so Mike John Larry it's Larry John Mike that we want to put in our output
area and I'll show you how to do that.
Coming up so I get an opportunity to try that.
And now I will give you the solution for this.
So what we want to do is we want to loop through it backwards.
And the way to do that so set up a variable and this variable x is not going to be equal to zero.
It's actually going to be equal to the value of usernames length minus 1 because this is an array.
And we know that we go all the way to zero.
So this is where we want to set up the array.
And then this value is also dependent on what our conditional value is in break out of the array.
So we need to check to see it while x is equal is greater than or equal to zero.
So we know that once it hits.
So we want this loop to stop and the next we want to decrease the value of x so out of that loop and
that's part we can add that in as well.
So let's try this out.
So is that works.
And we are able to with loops we're actually able to reverse them starting out with the higher number
and then decreasing the value of x as we loop through.
And there's one other way to loop through arrays and this one is also very popular.
Also a great way and this is new with us 2015.
So basically some of the older browsers may not be compatible with this type of format but you can try
it anyway.
And if you've got your users are coming in and the newer browsers then you can go ahead and use this
way because this is actually the simplest way to put those values.
So we loop through and we get a value of.
And this is where we placed the name of the array.
So we're getting a value of usernames and we're just looping through it and it's as easy as this where
we can put value.
So instead of the user names we're putting value.
So this is the one that's actually going to be the holder for the item as we loop through all the different
items within that array.
So let me show you what happens now.
So let's this one over here and I know I should have a way to differentiate this.
So let me
let me add something in here too.
To essentially break it
so get rid of the value and
for an and call it for it.
So there you go.
So I another way to output your content that's contained within your array.
And this again this is probably the easiest way to do that is simply to loop through all the items in
the array.
Assign a value so this one is holding the value of the item within the array and then all we're just
doing is we're making use of that value.
So this could be anything it doesn't need to be value it can be it can be be it can be whatever value
we want assigned to it.
So it doesn't matter on the output.
This is just the container the holder for whatever was in this array.
So what objects.
There's also a lot of great ways to loop through objects and that's coming up in the next lesson.